README.md, before:

# narou-py

Python downloader for major JP webnovel platforms with automatic EPUB export.

## Supported Sites

- `https://ncode.syosetu.com/<ncode>/`
- `https://novel18.syosetu.com/<ncode>/` (also `noc/mnlt/mid/nl.syosetu.com`)
- `https://syosetu.org/novel/<id>/` (Hameln)
- `https://kakuyomu.jp/works/<id>` (Kakuyomu)
- `https://www.akatsuki-novels.com/stories/index/novel_id~<id>` (Akatsuki)
- `https://www.mai-net.net/bbs/sst/sst.php?act=dump&cate=<cate>&all=<id>` (Arcadia)

## Run Directly

No install is required in this repository workflow. Run directly:

```bash
python3 -m narou_py "<novel-url>"
```

Optional (if you want command entry points in your environment):

```bash
python3 -m pip install -e .
```

## Basic Usage

```bash
python3 -m narou_py "https://ncode.syosetu.com/n1234ab/"
python3 -m narou_py "https://syosetu.org/novel/123456/"
python3 -m narou_py "https://kakuyomu.jp/works/1177354054880000000"
```

## Useful Flags

- `--no-skip-existing`: re-download all chapters
- `--subject <tag>`: add EPUB `dc:subject` (repeatable)
- `--title "<custom title>"`: fully override original title for archive name, `toc.json`, EPUB metadata, and cover title
- `--output <dir>`: archive root (default: `archive`)
- `--epub-output <file>`: output EPUB path
- `--aozora-jar <file>`: use AozoraEpub3.jar for EPUB export
- `--no-aozora`: force built-in EPUB exporter even when `--aozora-jar` is provided

Examples:

```bash
python3 -m narou_py "https://ncode.syosetu.com/n1234ab/" --subject fantasy --subject isekai
python3 -m narou_py "https://ncode.syosetu.com/n1234ab/" --no-skip-existing
python3 -m narou_py "https://syosetu.org/novel/307058/" --title "生意気な義妹が引きこもりになったので優しくしたら激甘ブラコン化した話"
python3 -m narou_py "https://ncode.syosetu.com/n1234ab/" --aozora-jar "/path/to/AozoraEpub3.jar"
```

## Output Notes

- Chapters are stored under `本文/*.json`
- Existing non-empty chapters are skipped by default
- EPUB is exported automatically after download
- By default, built-in EPUB exporter is used (no Java/Aozora dependency)
- If `--aozora-jar` is provided, AozoraEpub3 is used for EPUB generation
- If `cover.jpg/png/jpeg` exists in novel directory, it is used as cover
- If no cover file exists, `cover.png` is auto-generated

EPUB package paths:

- `META-INF/container.xml` -> `item/standard.opf`
- `item/nav.xhtml`
- `item/toc.ncx`
- `item/xhtml/*.xhtml`
- `item/style/book-style.css`

## Test

```bash
python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -v
```

## Acknowledgements

- [Rumia-Channel/narou](https://github.com/Rumia-Channel/narou)
- [kyukyunyorituryo/AozoraEpub3](https://github.com/kyukyunyorituryo/AozoraEpub3)

Commit message:

feat(aozora): transition to AozoraEpub3-rs for EPUB export
- update CLI to use AozoraEpub3-rs instead of AozoraEpub3.jar
- modify AozoraEpubExporter to support new AozoraEpub3-rs structure
- enhance error handling for AozoraEpub3-rs executable and project root resolution
- update README with new command-line options and usage examples
- add tests to verify AozoraEpub3-rs integration and functionality

README.md, after:

# narou-py

Python downloader for major JP webnovel platforms with automatic EPUB export.

## Supported Sites

- `https://ncode.syosetu.com/<ncode>/`
- `https://novel18.syosetu.com/<ncode>/` (also `noc/mnlt/mid/nl.syosetu.com`)
- `https://syosetu.org/novel/<id>/` (Hameln)
- `https://kakuyomu.jp/works/<id>` (Kakuyomu)
- `https://www.akatsuki-novels.com/stories/index/novel_id~<id>` (Akatsuki)
- `https://www.mai-net.net/bbs/sst/sst.php?act=dump&cate=<cate>&all=<id>` (Arcadia)

## Run Directly

No install is required in this repository workflow. Run directly:

```bash
python3 -m narou_py "<novel-url>"
```

Optional (if you want command entry points in your environment):

```bash
python3 -m pip install -e .
```

## Basic Usage

```bash
python3 -m narou_py "https://ncode.syosetu.com/n1234ab/"
python3 -m narou_py "https://syosetu.org/novel/123456/"
python3 -m narou_py "https://kakuyomu.jp/works/1177354054880000000"
```

## Useful Flags

- `--no-skip-existing`: re-download all chapters
- `--subject <tag>`: add EPUB `dc:subject` (repeatable)
- `--title "<custom title>"`: fully override original title for archive name, `toc.json`, EPUB metadata, and cover title
- `--output <dir>`: archive root (default: `archive`)
- `--epub-output <file>`: output EPUB path
- `--aozora [path]`: use AozoraEpub3-rs for EPUB export (`path` can be project root or executable)


Examples:

```bash
python3 -m narou_py "https://ncode.syosetu.com/n1234ab/" --subject fantasy --subject isekai
python3 -m narou_py "https://ncode.syosetu.com/n1234ab/" --no-skip-existing
python3 -m narou_py "https://syosetu.org/novel/307058/" --title "生意気な義妹が引きこもりになったので優しくしたら激甘ブラコン化した話"
python3 -m narou_py "https://ncode.syosetu.com/n1234ab/" --aozora
python3 -m narou_py "https://ncode.syosetu.com/n1234ab/" --aozora "/path/to/AozoraEpub3-rs"
```

## Output Notes

- Chapters are stored under `本文/*.json`
- Existing non-empty chapters are skipped by default
- EPUB is exported automatically after download
- By default, built-in EPUB exporter is used
- If `--aozora` is provided, AozoraEpub3-rs is used for EPUB generation
- If `cover.jpg/png/jpeg` exists in novel directory, it is used as cover
- If no cover file exists, `cover.png` is auto-generated

EPUB package paths:

- `META-INF/container.xml` -> `item/standard.opf`
- `item/nav.xhtml`
- `item/toc.ncx`
- `item/xhtml/*.xhtml`
- `item/style/book-style.css`

## Test

```bash
python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -v
```

## Acknowledgements

- [Rumia-Channel/narou](https://github.com/Rumia-Channel/narou)
- [kyukyunyorituryo/AozoraEpub3](https://github.com/kyukyunyorituryo/AozoraEpub3)
